All right.
At this point, we've got this nice universal conception of the universe, we're using the virus transformation.
What I want to do is run through a quick example to demonstrate the power that this provides and translating
between two different reference frames.
How helps to explain things?
Well, which I'm going to do that is I'm going to hearken back to the example we used previously to
help you understand life contraction.
That was the example which I labeled as Einstein's train paradox.
This situation was occurring in which Terence was in a train.
He was flying to the right at a speed, and we were trying to figure out the velocity he had to travel
such that wheel up when he's encountered with a tunnel that is a length of 20 feet.
He goes so fast that the length contracts and it appears as though Tarrant's fits inside that tunnel.
Now, as I was running through that problem, we encountered that they disagreed on how things would
happen, and we have found that it was resolved by stating that the simultaneity of events is relative,
not absolute.
In other words, the way in which events unravel in front of somebody is unique to to their experience,
the way in which they experience the universe and the way in which it transpires.
So what we found is that fill up may state that when you have gates that fly up on both ends, that
can occur at the same time simultaneously.
However, in Terrence's reference frame, what I stated is that the right side closes.
First, it opens, he flies through and then the left side closes and it's OK.
He doesn't get sliced.
Everything is all well.
Now, if we take the Lorentz transformation, I can prove that for you, right?
When I stated it, I did not give very hard evidence.
A lot of math, a lot of physics.
I just stated, that's the concept.
That's how it is.
Let's use our new tool, our new baby, the lines for transformation and use it to prove that what I
told you is in fact valid is in fact true.
I'm pulling a fast one on you, not lying.
I'm telling the truth.
Let's understand what's going on a bit better in this problem.
OK.
So to do that, what we need to do is record the information we do have and to refresh your memory.
What I want to say is that we've got a lot.
It had to travel about zero point nine three three times speed of light in order to shrink down from
fifty five point four two feet down to.
The length of this tunnel, so it would fit inside of it, according to Philip.
OK from his possession.
OK, so.
Using this value, we can derive the Lorentz factor, which we did in that previous video, we showed
that it was nothing more than.
Again, I was doing L is equal to L not over gamma.
We take L not 55 or 42, divided by 20.
That gives us a factor of two point seventy seven one.
It's quite large, but not as large as some of the values we've seen previously, right?
With the mu on example, it was quite large greater than like 100.
That was quite a large guy.
So what happens is in Philip's reference frame in the s, the unauthorized reference frame, no prime
event, one an event to occur at the same time, we'll set that equal to time equal zero.
So T one is equal to zero one event.
One on the left side goes up that occurs at the left side.
I'm going to say we're going to a reference frame in his wrap in his his perception x y that's embedded
on the left side of this tunnel, parents.
His reference frame is going to be embedded on the back of his train.
Just how we used it in our derivations.
We want to remain consistent for that reason at times equals zero.
Event one when the left door closes and Phillips frame that occurs at X equals zero.
Now for the event number two on the right side in Philip's frame at time, two equals zero.
That occurs at 20 feet because the tunnel is 20 feet, and we know that that's an observable fact that
both parents and Philip would agree upon if there was no relative motion, right?
That's literally the length in the rest frame, the proper length, if you will.
OK, taking this guy and I knew handy, Danny told the Lorenz transformation.
We can figure out what both of these guys are equivalent to the terrorists reference frame.
And if I'm correct, we will find that the times will differ from both events and we will hope that
the right event will close right now.
What I'm going to do first is I'm going to look at event number one the door on the left, so I'm going
to write that down as event number one.
And what we're going to try to figure out is first, let's go with the length.
Let's take a look at our conception of space, how that's going to be affected, according to our nice
new translating map.
OK, so what we know is that as recorded here, according to Parents x Prime, his measurement should
be defined as such.
So our mapping says we should translate Philip's measurements by multiplying them by this Lorentz factor
and calculating the quantity x minus the T. So if I want event one, these guys will all have to be
as such.
These quantities are in terms of his measurements.
So what we can do is we can just plug in your baby.
So we get gamma, we plug in x one.
That's just zero minus B times T one.
That's zero.
Not surprisingly, x one prime is equal to zero.
So when this happens, when this door actually closes.
What we find is that this guy is aligned right there, so it closes right on the left side of him.
Good.
It doesn't get cut off according to this, but let's see when it actually occurs.
OK, we need to tackle the conception of time next.
So according to Team One, we take this sort of a bit more complicated formula gamma and we take the
quantities in terms of Philip's measurements.
So T minus B over C squared times x.
And since we're dealing with event one, we want T one and X one, they're both zero.
So this gives us a very uninteresting result, right?
This becomes nothing more than gamma times zero minus B or C squared times zero.
Oh, that's easy.
That's zero 31 from zero.
And initially, that seems pretty odd.
It's not ideal what I told you.
Right?
Because to you, one prime is zero.
That means that when it closes on the left side of this train car.
That's going to occur at time T equals zero, but wait a second that's supposed to occur.
Second.
Stick in their resolve this problem.
So this is what happens according to Terrence, according to his clock.
Let's see what happens with the event, too.
Maybe that can elucidate a bit more information.
So who are event number two?
What we could do is the same exact operation.
We're going to start first with the conception of space.
So we take X two from equal to gamma x two minus B C to and for this one.
We actually have some quantities we can work through here.
We got the twenty for the X2, so let's try and plug that guy in.
So we got really the runs factor two point seventy seven one, which was contained right down here and
four x two we get twenty feet minus B times T two, which was nothing more than zero seconds.
So we get this, we do that calculation.
We find that X2 frame is equal to that calculation, which is nothing more than fifty five point four
to beat or the proper length.
All this boxcar, so when you've got two sleds up, it's going to be right up the right side of this
boxcar.
It's not going to slice it in half.
So that proves that idea that I told you.
But when does this actually occur?
Is there simultaneity of the events?
Let's figure that out by considering the conception of time, the conception of time, so we could do
the same exact calculation to produce our nice, handy dandy map.
Translate this information into terraces, and we just write down the same exact formula so we get to
minus B over C squared times x two.
And we just throw all these guys in, so what we end up with is two point seven seven one four a Lawrence
factor.
We're going to plug in zero for the time and then we need to plug in these guys.
So what I'm going to say is B is this time C.
So I'm just going to say I'm going to cancel the C and use the factor.
So this is zero point nine three two six one.
And you may have noticed that.
This value in the original movie was zero point nine, three three.
I'm using more precision, so we get the correct result.
Right.
If you use point, you're to guess actually big sources of error.
So I'm just using more precision in our measurements.
I'm not rounding closer to the third decimal place, so we take that guy and we need to divide by the
speed, which is three times and to the eight meters per second.
And then we need to multiply by X to well, X two is 20 feet and we have a disparity.
Don't raise this problem.
When you're running through problems with special relativity units up the match up, they start the
match up.
So we're looking for seconds.
We have feet here, we got meters here.
We need to convert those feet or two meters, so that cancels out properly.
And I like to do this by just searching for it and Google, it gives you a nice conversion rate.
So what you find if you do that is you can multiply by the factor, which says that in one foot you
have points.
Three, zero, four eight.
Meters per one foot.
And then you need another racket there.
So when you run through this calculation right here, what you end up with is actually, oh, that's
interesting.
Whoa.
Negative sign here.
So you get a negative.
Five point twenty five.
One times 10 to the minus eight
seconds.
And if you've worked with units in the negative, that's close to that problem, you know that a nanosecond
is 10 to the minus nine.
So what you could do is you can move this guy over there.
And then this becomes minus nine, right, because if it's minus nine, he moved over there and then
you get minus eight and you could say this is nothing more than negative.
Fifty two point five, one nanoseconds.
You get that.
And he said, wait a minute, how can you have negative sign?
We're not going back into the past, we can't reverse the flow of time.
What does that mean?
What what the hell is going on here?
Well, calm down.
I'm going to sort this out for us.
What this is stating is that, according to Terrence, this clock, according to his timeline, the
event of the door slamming up at events u occurs prior to when he starts his stopwatch.
That means that event two.
Yes, indeed, that does occur first.
And then it shoots up at that point.
It's going to shoot up fifty five point four two feet in front of him.
And.
In essence, what happens is it comes up, comes down, he flies up.
Then after this amount of time has transpired fifty two point five one nanoseconds short amount of time.
What you see is that who this guy is in line.
The back of that car is in lower left side of this tunnel.
The gate goes up.
It goes down.
He does not get cut up and everything is fine.
So everything I told you was true.
Everything I told you was true.
Let's summarize this and do one additional check.
OK, so what we can do is I'm going to erase this and I have the information retained in my notebook
and I'm going to draw up some scenarios.
So initially.
What's going to happen is.
So event number two, that's going to occur first.
Fifty two point five nanoseconds before left side goes up, according to terrorists, a court parents.
That's his experience of the universe.
What's going to happen is.
We're going to have some kind of ground there.
We're going to have we're going to have a train car going and maybe about that size to be like that
and then we're going to have a tunnel which is going to be maybe something like this should.
At this point, this is events where we're going off to, but sort of like event one, so it's at same
time as event one and Event two, all that sort of confusing.
We're just going to call it event number two just to stay in line.
I don't want to give you advice.
OK, so you then number two at this point?
We know that from here to here in Terrence's reference frame, this is the proper length.
This is fifty five point four to each.
According to him, this guy, you remember what we found in the video.
This guy has to be contracted because, oh, wait a minute, this length 20 feet is a it's at addressed
in a Phillips frame.
So that has to get you contracted.
So this guy is nothing more than 20 feet over Gamma Gowanus 2.7 one.
And what I calculated for that is about seven point two two feet.
So this guy.
Right here at this point in time, this should be nothing more than this guy minus that.
But also, so what is that?
Quick math, so you have 40 at 47 and about three and a five, it's should be close to about 48 it.
I'm going to just put that really quick.
48.
According to him, this is according to him, right?
Because this is the contract a lengthy sees when this is borrowed against the right side of that tunnel.
So if this really is correct, this life here, I'll call it.
I'll just call it out.
This should be the distance that this train travels in the interval, we calculated that fifty two point
five nanoseconds.
Right.
Because after that occurs, this guy should be buddy up to the left, which means that it has to travel
that amount of distance to compensate for that.
So what we should find is that El or Delta X should be the velocity which both Wheelock and Terrence
agree upon, right?
They don't agree.
They don't disagree about the relative motion between them this time.
Delta T, the Delta T that occurred.
In this case, it's Terrence's conception, right?
Because this is an Terrence's Terrence's world.
So I'm going to put actually a little dash right there to designate that we want to be consistent with
units, be consistent with what reference frame you're in.
So if we take this, we should be able to take his velocity.
Zero point nine three What was that two six one?
That is correct.
And then that time, see right?
Three times 10 eight meters per second.
And then the Delta T Well, event one occurred at T equals zero to occur at negative fifty two point
five one nanosecond.
So let's put that in.
That's the Delta T from thirty two point five native fifty two point five two zero.
That's a delta of fifty two point five one.
Right.
That's the time it transpires between this guy going up and coming down and then that guy going up,
coming down.
So this becomes fifty two point five one.
Times 10 to the minus nine.
Seconds.
And we want it in feet so we can make sense of this, that we need to multiply this guy.
I'm going to put this continuing on down in this line.
This guy becomes nothing more.
We're going from meters to feet.
So we want one foot how many meters we're in a foot?
Well, I said that previously, that's zero point three zero four eight.
Meters.
And if you went out MATLAB, Mathematica or your old school tie in three or maybe even more because
I would only use that if I didn't have the other tools.
But if you if you put this into some kind of computational tool, what you're going to find is that
you get a result, which is forty eight point two feet, which agrees with this because forty eight
point two plus seven point two two Oh, does that match up?
Quick math.
My head up.
Yes, that does.
Yes, that matches up.
Exactly.
So.
We find that this gels well with our intuition, so yes, it occurred previously to when he started
his his his clock.
And what's important is the deltas between the time, which gives us this distance here.
So what happens is we see that.
Yes, indeed.
This event occurs first and taxes frame and then event number one.
So keep flying right by it with and right by.
So event number one, what that looks like is we draw all the ground.
We'd roll the box car.
It looks like it shrank, but it did it on just a terrible artist.
And then what we find is the tunnel.
It's going to look something like that.
So in this situation.
Events the sky is going up, and he does not get cut off.
Yes.
We have proven that using the Lawrence transformation, the simultaneity of events is relative, not
absolute.
This is the mathematical derivation of what transpired and that weird, wacky paradox I won over.
And this really demonstrates the power of the Lorenz transformation.
So what have we done?
What have we done in this course?
We've done some beautiful work.
We've derived interesting phenomena such as time dilation, length contraction, paired them up together
and use that as a foundational principle, foundational support for erecting this bridge that would
not fall apart, that would not collapse.
That allows us to bridge the gap between an infinite set of conceptions or perceptions of the universe.
So regardless of how trance, how events transpire or arise in front of you, according to your eyes,
according to your perspectives, your experiences, you can take those events.
You can use this map the Lorenz transformation to switch between them using your information.
Your information, whether it be from Terrence to fill up or fill up the parents and your concessions
will agree, you agree about the results.
You agree about what actually happens.
And there's no confusion.
Congratulations.
You are a master of special relativity.
Next, what we want to do is we want to take what we derived here and revisit what I called the Lost
Velocity Edition back in close to the first video we put out.
And in that video, we found that when you shoot a light, when you're traveling close to the speed
of light, some weird phenomena happens.
We're going to resolve that.
We're going to make sense of what happens, and we're going to derive one more kinematic expression
for special relativity, which helps us show how different relative velocities arise.
Hope you enjoy that?
Hope you enjoyed reconciling this weird paradox.
Stay tuned.